
# CoolProp Docker images

Welcome to **CoolProp/Dockerfiles** - a repository that provides Docker images preconfigured to build and use the CoolProp fluid property database. 

## Structure of the Repository

Most of the images used to build CoolProp employ Debian's stable branch as their base image. Have a look at the `debian` subdirectory to see how these images are created from scratch in a chroot environment using the scripts provided by [Dashamir Hoxha](https://github.com/docker-32bit/debian). The binaries are uploaded to the [debian](https://hub.docker.com/r/coolprop/debian/) and the [debian32](https://hub.docker.com/r/coolprop/debian32/) repositories on Docker Hub.

Based on the bare Debian images, the [basesystem](https://hub.docker.com/r/coolprop/basesystem/) and [basesystem32](https://hub.docker.com/r/coolprop/basesystem32/) Dockerfiles get built directly on Docker Hub as soon as new commits are pushed to this Git repository. These images contain the basic infrastructure required to compile CoolProp, which can be summarised to the GCC suite, version control systems and a slim Python installation. 

Note that the largest images `coolprop/slaveopen` and `coolprop/slaveopen32` are not part of the automatic build system. They have to be generated and uploaded manually and you have to accept a certain delay, but you can always build your own images from the Dockerfiles provided here. As of November 2015, the images are tested with the wrappers for Octave, C#, Java, JavScript

so far untested are: Scilab, Julia

## Size Restrictions

If you run into disk space problems in a virtual docker machine (Windows or OSX), you can use

```
docker-machine stop default
cd .docker/machine/machines/default/
VBoxManage clonehd disk.vmdk disk-temp.vdi --format vdi
VBoxManage modifymedium disk disk-temp.vdi --resize 51200 # 1024MB/GB*50GB
VBoxManage clonehd disk-temp.vdi disk-resized.vmdk --format vmdk
mv disk.vmdk disk.vmdk.old
mv disk-resized.vmdk disk.vmdk
docker-machine start default
```

if all went well, you can remove the old disks with `rm disk.vmdk.old disk-temp.vdi`. You might have 
to add the VirtualBox folder to your path. On Windows, this is typically `C:\Program Files\Oracle\VirtualBox` 
and you add it by running `set PATH=%PATH%;C:\Program Files\Oracle\VirtualBox`.

## Installing Proprietary Software

The prerequisites to build the open-source wrappers are all combined in the `coolprop/slaveopen` image. The `slavefull` 
folder contains files and instructions to build an image including the proprietary software like MATLAB and alike. These images have 
to be built *locally* since the contain software that requires specific licenses. You can also install the software *after* the image 
has been launched for the first time using the `docker exec -it` commands.

## Release Cycles

Put a real version number in `buildsteps/base.txt`, make all targets and see how the automated builds fail due to the missing tags in the repositories. 
Start tagging the images in the following order: debian/debian32 - basesystem/basesystem32 - slavebase/slavebase32 - slavepython/slavepython32. 
Wait between each tagging session to allow the automatic builds to catch up with the new images.

Another possibility is to invoke the makefile with calling `make delete debian release` and push the resulting images to the server.

## Additional Information

You can find more information in the developer section of the [CoolProp homepage](http://coolprop.sourceforge.net/develop/index.html). The Dockerfiles in this repository should be self-explanatory. Please note the files are generated by a makefile and should not be edited manually.

